Rewrite of Docker install guides (#988)
gravitee-io/gravitee-docs: pages/apim/3.x/installation-guide/docker/installation-guide-docker-customize.adoc

= Further Customization
:page-sidebar: apim_3_x_sidebar
:page-permalink: apim/3.x/apim_installation_guide_docker_customize.html
:page-folder: apim/installation-guide/docker
:page-layout: apim3x
:page-description: Gravitee.io API Management - Installation Guide - Docker - Customize
:page-keywords: Gravitee.io, API Management, apim, guide, manual, docker, customize, linux
:page-liquid:

This page explains how to further customize your Docker installation. 

== Installing additional plugins

> APIM Docker images contain the default plugins. To add an additional plugin, copy the plugin archive (a `.zip` file) into the `plugins-ext` folder. If you used the filestructure described in link:{{'apim/3.x/apim_installation_guide_docker_introduction.html#architecture' | relative_url }}[Architecture], the `plugin-ext` folder is `/gravitee/apim-gateway/plugins` for the gateway and `/gravitee/apim-management-api/plugins` for the management API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIM Docker images contain the default plugins. To add an additional plugin, copy the plugin archive (a `.zip` file) into the `plugins-ext` folder. If you used the filestructure described in link:{{'apim/3.x/apim_installation_guide_docker_compose.html#create_the_filesystem_and_download_the_docker_compose_file' | relative_url }}[the custom install section], the `plugin-ext` folder is `/gravitee/apim-gateway/plugins` for the gateway and `/gravitee/apim-management-api/plugins` for the management API.
```

  --env gravitee_ratelimit_redis_port=6379 \  
----

You also need to remove the `gravitee_ratelimit_mongodb_uri` `env` from the command.

[NOTE]
====
Your Redis host and port may be different.
====

> == Use JDBC connection as the datastore for management

Reviewer 2: For JDBC, the plugin is already included in the bundle. However, it requires downloading a driver manually. We have a documentation there: https://docs.gravitee.io/apim/3.x/apim_installguide_repositories_jdbc.html

Author: I have updated the text and added a link to that page. I also made a small change to that page. It will need reviewed too.

To use JDBC as the datastore for management, you  have to have the JDBC plugin installed on the gateway and management API, and you have to start the containers using some additional environment variables.

If you do not have the JDBC plugin, you can download it from the link:https://download.gravitee.io/#graviteeio-apim/plugins/repositories/gravitee-apim-repository-jdbc//[JDBC plugin download page].

=== Using `docker compose`

To use JDBC with `docker compose`, edit the `/services/gateway/environment` section and the `/services/management_api/environment` section of the Docker compose file to include the following lines, and remove the lines containing `gravitee_management_mongodb_uri`.

[source]
----
       - gravitee_management_type=jdbc

>        - gravitee_management_jdbc_url=jdbc:mysql://gravitee-mysql:3306/gravitee?useSSL=false&user=mysql_users&password=mysql_password

Author: I have added a warning explaining this.
